it would be hard for me to say what is
the stupidest comment I've ever received
here at this YouTube channel what is the
stupidest complaint I've ever gotten
but one of them may be somewhere in the
top ten
it's the complaint that when I record
this show I dress up like a medical
doctor or a research scientist we
referring to this jacket especially
people click a medical doctor for
research scientists
guess again alright guys it's just cold
enough here in Taiwan that I I do feel
like I need an extra layer on as I'm
recording this now talking about two
issues one of which is the ongoing
pro-democracy rebellion in the streets
of Hong Kong and the other which is the
entirely phony
rebellion in the United Kingdom in
England called extinction rebellion now
what do these two political events have
to do with each other well they are
forever in two solely linked in my own
mind and experience because about five
months ago now little less than five
months ago I spoke to Roger Hallam so if
you don't recognize the name Roger
Hallam he's one of the three public
faces of extinction rebellion and I
would say he is the more respectable and
more erudite sounding of the three major
spokespeople who represent that movement
so he's been interviewed on the news
many times on many different news
programmes by newspapers and this sort
of thing and he's one of the founders
one of the people who defined what that
movement was in what circumstances did I
speak to him I attended a vegan event
there was a mass audience and Roger
Hallam or his glowing Specter appeared
before us by Skype or by some other
teleconferencing software equivalent to
Skype which is to say he was not there
in person and then they took questions
from the audience and I've stepped up
and spoke to him and he replied to me so
I was pleased to have the opportunity to
in effect speak directly with Roger helm
but it was in front of a live studio
audience
now the first thing I said to him was
that he had given me a much more
positive impression of his organization
and its objectives in its methods in
that lecture he just presented to this
audience then I had ever gotten from his
own website or from his YouTube channel
which was true I had prepared had done
some research before coming to this
event and had a really pervasively
negative sense of what extinction poems
about and I put in the question how
confident was he really in what he
claimed were the hard facts of social
science research what he claimed with
the clear and indisputable lessons of
history basically in which he just
claims that this type of very marginal
public protest brings about dramatic
changes in the history of the world said
right now in Hong Kong this is true four
months ago or five months ago now right
now in Hong Kong you see the
pro-democracy protests that are tearing
the city apart I could say that again
today now four or five months later how
do you think that's going to end
that's a movement that represents a much
greater population as much more force
behind it it's really achieved the
methodology that he set out it's brought
the city to a standstill it's brought
the economy to a standstill it's
completely dominated you know the news
and Parliament and the police and so on
if you really believe in the methodology
of extinction rebellion that would
basically mean applying the same pattern
of activism and disruption that we've
seen in Hong Kong in the city of London
or in the city of Paris or in the city
of Glasgow Scotland wherever they manage
to to pull it off if if this is what you
believe in then the parallel between the
two is striking how do you think the
current protests in Hong Kong will end
still today this is really a very
meaningful and even terrifying question
for all of us to reflect on now I
probably know somewhat more about the
political history of China than the
average member of my audience the
Tiananmen Square massacre
the problem with that event historically
is that it's not the people who were
killed on camera at that location at
that time it's the long shadow of people
who disappeared in the weeks and months
and decades afterwards the vast majority
of the killings that mattered that
snuffed out the Tiananmen Square produce
a movement in China were not people who
were killed by tanks or bulldozers or
something at that moment at that time
already every single person's face who
attended the event was captured on film
and video camera yes all that technology
already existed and believe me the
government of China had the staff to go
through a hold of the footage and
identify the people and so on and the
people they couldn't identify you could
interrogate someone else and figure that
was people could be tracked down
people's parents could be tracked young
people's grandparents could be tracked
down the whole web of you know what was
initially a student movement so they
were predominantly young people of
course there were some some other people
but still when you look at the footage
which you mostly see your young people
at the genome and Square protests all of
their family connections or connections
their colleagues their friends could be
tracked down and silenced one way or
another and with a terrifying
inexorability this is what in the next
several years would unfold in China not
not a massacre in the sense of a unique
moment in history you know sir like in
history of India the Amritsar Massacre
or the British military kills a group of
people at one protest at one time in one
square the problem is the Chinese
government's habit shall we say of
tracking down and extinguishing
opposition now the situation now in Hong
Kong you will notice that many of the
confrontations between students and the
police
or between students and journalists
sometimes they're legitimate journalist
sums they're a sensible journalists who
are suspected to be working for the
Chinese government but it makes it
matter
very often the students become extremely
angry if someone photographs their face
up close and they start attacking that
journalist or start attacking that
police officer and I think that is
because they're aware that the threat
against their life will never end right
you know it is possible that the
government of China will wear kid gloves
as the saying goes it's possible they'll
talk to some of these young people and
say look we've got your name on a list
we're watching you we know exactly what
you did during the protests we have
videotape footage we have photographs
and you know maybe we won't put you in a
gulag today or tomorrow maybe we won't
kill you and prison your family but if
you don't conform all the way from now
on it's gonna be game over it's it's
quite possible they'll do that the
current generation of the Communist
Party they're uh they're genteel
although menacing in their methods of
repressing dissent and you know even a
government is brutal and terrifying as
Saudi Arabia you might be surprised if
you start going over the human rights
record how often it is that they hold
back from just killing their enemies how
often is they just have somebody come
and knock at the door and explain what
the situation is and ask people to
comply
rather than disappear so it's that's
kind of the best-case scenario
imaginable for young people more now
again I'm sharing this with you because
I think some of you might be looking
with incomprehension at the ferocity of
the Hong Kong protesters when indeed the
the police themselves are quite nice
towards the moment it sounds ridiculous
to say but it's true the Hong Kong
police who were on duty themselves
they're not some kind of brutal terrible
you know authoritarian force they're the
normal police officers the city of Hong
Kong and yet you know these student
protesters really fight with fear of
their lives and that's because it's not
the police we're meeting them now face
to face at this
the problem the massacre is not going to
happen here and now in the streets of
Hong Kong over six months or over six
years over a long period of time after
the protests end if these young people
and again they're predominantly young
people I don't know if they're entirely
on people so if if these protesters do
not escape to Taiwan or California or
Paris France if they don't escape to
some other country if they don't get
some kind of refugee status then indeed
at a minimum their name will be in a
list and it is quite likely they will be
hunted down and killed so this gives the
protests a very different sort of mood
spirit tenacity there's nothing like the
fear for one's own life and the sense
that by participating in these protests
already they have sacrificed their
future they've sacrificed any possible
career they might have if not put
themselves in real peril of disappearing
into a prison into a political
re-education camp into being tortured or
into being executed entirely now by
contrast the man I spoke to you at
extinction rebellion
Roger Hallam he managed to get himself
put in prison over rather silly and
contrived circumstances where he went
and had a picnic with a drone but the
drone so that but the drone you mean
here are remote controlled flying toy
and it was just a toy but the toy didn't
have a battery in it he intentionally
set up situations so he'd get arrested
but in fact it was impossible for him to
fly the drone and cause a problem he had
a picnic adjacent to the airport and
nevertheless he was put in prison
briefly and I assume played his case
what you can see with all the British
footage is that the the police in the
United Kingdom are being as sympathetic
as they possibly can toward what is
ultimately a destructive form of public
protest and I would like to announce
very plainly that we can now say
extinction rebellion has failed they may
not say it's over I think it genuinely
already is over and like so many
political movements
our time it has begun and ended right
here on YouTube this isn't itself a
reason to get on YouTube guys if you if
you care about politics YouTube may not
be the poetry of our times but it really
is the political Agora of our times
shall I say um anyway they are still to
this day being interviewed by major
mainstream news broadcasting companies
still to this day those interviews are
going on and on and nevertheless they're
uploading videos to YouTube with 1000
views 1,500 views they managed to get a
celebrity to appear and then maybe they
get 3,000 views you know these these
kinds of numbers alright so again if my
own channel gets this number of viewers
of course there's nothing surprising
with this people only see these videos
because they know me or because one of
you literally emails a friend with the
link or sends the link to somebody
through Facebook that is the only
promotion for this channel there's
nothing else I don't even post to Reddit
anymore I used to in years past and I
lost patience with it I don't need I
don't attempt to promote or advertise
this channel in any way when you are
receiving the promotion of being on the
front page of the newspaper being
interviewed on mainstream radio
mainstream television again and again
and you you present yourself as the
leaders of a mass movement and a mass
movement that has received a
considerable amount of money in
donations and as organization and so on
behind it isn't it a worrying sign when
in that context you're only getting 1200
views 3,000 views on YouTube so on and
so forth when the world has simply
gotten tired of hearing your message now
again we have to compare extinction
rebellion to the promises that define
their movement and the methods they
endorsed they said again and again this
is not a protest it's a revolution it's
a rebellion they said again and again
that they had something new and
different to offer that this wasn't the
same as every other street protests that
in before they said they were going to
take
over the British house of parliament by
force that is not unprecedented in the
history of England that's happened
several times before in this view
England they fail to do that in case you
haven't heard what they did was a 100%
typical series of street protests that
accomplished nothing except except
except it created the careers of the
three leaders of this organization to
now be talking heads on the news and
opinion circuit especially in England
especially in Europe and to some extent
internationally and around the world is
provided at least these three people
with Fame and money and power and status
and in every other way their movement is
a failure right and among other things
something they promised was to innovate
was to do something new and different
and as I've already stated look you can
look at the footage of what actually
happens at their protests there is
absolutely nothing new all they did was
get together a bunch of hippies on the
streets holding up slogans written on
cardboard and they called this over
billion it's very instructive and very
useful to contrast what's happening in
Hong Kong right now alright in its
spirit and in the terror of the people
who participate what's going on in Hong
Kong right now is a rebellion I wouldn't
say a revolution but it is an act of
rebellion and what they're demanding is
simply democracy now you tell me how
that's going to end I have the same
question for you now that I had for
Roger Hallam because Roger Hallam's
claim it's not worth repeating in
greater detail I find it completely
phony and completely insincere is that
if you just study the history of
political movements you can
thoughtlessly and recklessly and
optimistically embrace this form of
activism because it basically always
works that you know well
people wanted gay rights and then they
got gay rights and people wanted civil
rights for african-americans and they
got supports every migrants it's an
unbelievably facile and insincere
interpretation of history every bit as
specious and a phony and false as the
dialectics of Marxism and communism were
before it all right sorry but here off
the top of my head I could give you a
more meaningful summary of how it was in
the United States that civil rights
legislation got passed has a lot to do
with the assassination of JFK has a lot
to do with the guy who took over
presidency in the United States
immediately thereafter Lyndon Johnson
and his wife Lady Bird Johnson at home
up they tell you this there's a really
specific legislative history and
specific political context that was not
created by rebellion on the streets it
wasn't created by a bunch of hippies
holding up placards it really wasn't
okay and then you can examine that
history and you can indeed reflect on
what would be the implications for what
we would do now in advocating for
ecology veganism animal rights
advocating against climate change or
trying to improve aerial pollution ocean
pollution what-have-you
those might be interesting question to
ask people like extinction rebellion are
not asking those questions and they're
not answering those questions and for me
it will remain a tremendously memorable
even if minor turning point in my own
life that when I asked Richard Hallam
straight to his face if you really
believe this theory you're advancing
well then look at what's happening right
now on the streets of Hong Kong and you
tell me what's gonna happen next because
you're claiming that this is a cannot
failed strategy for a bright and
powerful future that this is gonna
transform government that this is gonna
transform public policy like clockwork
this is the heartbeat of history you
look back at the history of the world
you use your social science methods and
you've extracted this transcendent truth
that is at all times consistent in all
these different
culture and political circumstances you
tell me the protests that are happening
right now in Hong Kong and this is what
I asked them why do you think the end of
this story will be any less tragic than
the pro-democracy protests that we saw
before in Tiananmen Square and the truth
is Roger Hallam did not have an answer
for that question then he still doesn't
have an answer for that question now and
that's why extinction rebellion is a
failure because it's led by idiots